Describe the effects of clock drift. (#19)
scionassociation/scion-dp_I-D: draft-dekater-scion-dataplane.md

- `C`: Construction direction flag. If the flag has value "1", the hop fields in the segment represented by this info field are arranged in the direction they have been constructed during beaconing.
- `RSV`: Unused and reserved for future use.
- `Acc`: This updatable field/counter is required for calculating the MAC in the data plane. `Acc` stands for "Accumulator". For more details, see [](#auth-chained-macs).

> - `Timestamp`: Timestamp created by the initiator of the corresponding beacon. The timestamp is defined as the number of seconds elapsed since the POSIX Epoch (1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC), encoded as a 32-bit unsigned integer. This timestamp enables the validation of a hop field in the segment represented by this info field, by verifying the expiration time and MAC set in the hop field - the expiration time of a hop field is calculated relative to the timestamp. A Info field with a timestamp in the future is invalid. For the purpose of validation, a timestamp is considered "future" if it is later than the locally available current time plus 337.5 seconds (i.e. the minimum time to live of a hop).

Reviewer: I'd align this text with the CP draft once we finish discussion in https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cp_I-D/pull/25

Author: done

This section describes the steps that a SCION ingress border router MUST perform when it receives a SCION packet.

1. Check that the interface through which the packet was received is equal to the ingress interface in the current hop field. If not, the router MUST drop the packet.

> 2. Check that the current hop field is not expired and not originated in the future (that is, the current info field does have a timestamp in the future). If either is true, the router MUST drop the packet.

Author: Done. Rephrased to avoid double negatives.

**Note:** For more information on the path meta header, see [](#PathMetaHdr).

#### Effects of Clock Inaccuracy

Each router along a packet's path verifies the validity of the current hop field by comparing the current time with the hop's expiration time.

This expiration time is calculated as described in [](#hopfld) on the basis of the segment's timestamp. That timestamp is assigned by the host that originates the segment. A fast clock at origination or a slow clock at a router will yield a lengthened time-to-live; possibly an origination time in the future. A slow clock at origination or a fast clock at a router will yield a shortened time to live; possibly an expiration time in the past.

> The shortest time-to-live is 5 minutes, 37 seconds, and 500 milliseconds ([](#hopfld)) and a segment is valid up to that same amount of time prior to its origination timestamp ([](#inffield)). Assuming segments are originated at least once a minute, if the clock difference between the originator of a path and any routers that it refers to does not exceeds 4 minutes and 37 seconds, the shortest-lived segment and the most recent segment are usable. To that end, a clock accuracy better than 1 minute is more than sufficient.

Reviewer 2: "Assuming segments are originated at least once a minute ..."

This is not entirely accurate. Longer paths take longer to create. With a 1 minute beaconing period, constructing a path segment that traverses N ASes will take up to N minutes.

With this in mind, I don't really know how to write this. Perhaps something to the effect of: the expiration time of a path can often not be constrained too tightly, as the path discovery takes a variable amount of time and the usable lifetime of the path is  reduced accordingly. Compared to this effect, even clock drifts in the order of minutes do not pose additional problems.

Author: Ah yes, that's even more relevant...unfortunately not as clear-cut indeed.

By default, segments are propagated once a minute. A segment is registered by the last AS of that segment, therefore up to N minutes after origination, where N is the length of the segment. As a result, a segment must have a time-to-live of at least N minutes to be of any use. N being the length of the segment. On the other hand, a very recent segment, which clocks offset could make appear from the future, ages by 1 minute per hop before being used, thereby reducing the impact of clock drift in that respect.

The unit of a segments time-to-live is 5 minutes and 37 seconds (and 500 ms), or the equivalent of 5 hops. Given the above constraints, it is unreasonable to create a segment with a short time-to-live, while each additional time-to-live unit adds more than 5 minutes. As a result, a clock drift of up to 1 minute can be safely neglected.

Each administrator of a SCION router or core control service is responsible for maintaining sufficient clock accuracy. No particular method is assumed by this specification.

> 

Reviewer: I'd also shrink and reword this section, after we finish discussion in the control plane PR, and leave here only aspects that relate to the DP, like: 
- there must be lose time sync between routers and CPs (within an AS?) because routers must verify the current HF 

And remove parts that relate to CP

Author: done.

**Note:** For more information on the path meta header, see [](#PathMetaHdr).

#### Effects of Clock Inaccuracy

> A PCB originated by a given control service is used to make dataplane paths. The hops of these paths are then validated by every router along that path. A segment's originating control service and the routers that the segment refers to all have different clocks. Their differences affect the validation process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PCB originated by a given control service is used to construct data plane paths. Specifically, the timestamp in the Info Field and the expiry time of hop fields are used for hop field MAC computation, see [](#hf-mac-calc), which is used to validate paths at each on-path SCION router. A segment's originating control service and the routers that the segment refers to all have different clocks. Their differences affect the validation process:
```

I propose some rewording to make the dependencies  a bit clear

* A fast clock at origination or a slow clock at validation will yield a lengthened expiration time for hops, and possibly an origination time in the future.
* A slow clock at origination or a fast clock at validation will yield a shortened expiration time for hops, and possibly an expiration time in the past.

This bias comes in addition to a structural delay: PCBs are propagated at a configurable interval (typically, one minute). As a result of this and the way they are iteratively constructed, PCBs with N hops may become available for path construction up to N intervals (so typically N minutes) after origination. This creates a constraint on the expiration of hops. Hops of the minimal expiration time (337.5 seconds - see [](#hopfld)) would render useless any path segment longer than 5 hops. For this reason, it is unadvisable to create hops with a short expiration time. The norm is 6 hours.

In comparison to these time scales, clock offsets in the order of minutes are immaterial.

> Each administrator of a SCION control service is responsible for maintaining sufficient clock accuracy. No particular method is assumed by this specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each administrator of SCION control services and routers is responsible for maintaining sufficient clock accuracy. No particular method is assumed by this specification.
```
We should include routers too
